Documents workflow for private and shared notes (#318)
dendronhq/dendron-site: vault/dendron.guides.workflows.private-shared-setup.md

---
id: 6DZiBObwhZNYRjnokQ422
title: Private and shared vaults
desc: Using Dendron for private and shared use
updated: 1639246566164
created: 1638820992694
---

## Rationale

You want to use dendron for personal and professional use, keeping some notes private, while sharing others with other team members (or even yourself! -i.e. different machines). Some of these notes, in turn, may be [[published|dendron.topic.publish]], whereas others, not.

Some specific use cases in which following a [[dendron.topic.multi-vault]] strategy would be recommended are:

![[dendron.topic.multi-vault#use-cases,1:#*]]

## Overview

> Create a blank worspace that will have [[multiple vaults|dendron.topic.multi-vault]], each of them serving different purposes and audiences. Some of them, or even all of them can be independent git repositories that can be shared with others as you would with a regular git repo. The workspace, in turn, can also be a git repo itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a blank worspace that will have [[multiple vaults|dendron.topic.multi-vault]], each serving different purposes and audiences. Each vault can be independent git repositories that can be shared with others as you would with a regular git repository. The workspace, itself, can also be a git repository.
```

## Step by step

### Start from scratch

1. **Create a [[bare workspace|dendron.topic.workspace#concepts]]**. This workspace will be blank and contain all the needeed [[vaults|dendron.topic.vaults]] as well as the templates and configurations.
   ![[dendron.topic.workspace#bare-workspace:#*]]
   1. Run `Dendron: Initialize Workspace` command.
   2. Type the location where you want it to be stored
   3. Select `blank`
2. Add as many [[dendron.topic.vaults]] as needed, each one serving different purposes or audiences.
   
   1. Create a **local note** for notes that will not be shared ([[more info here|dendron.topic.vaults#vault-add]]):
      1. Run `Dendron: Vault Add`
      2. Select `local`
      3. Type the location where you want it to be stored
      4. Type the name of the vault (can be different from the folder's name)

>    2. Add a **remote vault** for notes that will be shared (either with yourself or with others) you can either clone a remote note or create a local vault and then convert it into a remote one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   2. Add a **remote vault** for notes that will be shared (either with yourself or with others). You can clone a remote vault or create a local vault that you convert into a remote one:
```

>       1. Adding a remote vault: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      1. If adding remote vault(s) that already exist: 
```

         1. Run `Dendron: Vault Add`
         2. Select `remote`
         3. Write the git location of the remote vault you want to clone
         4. The vault will be cloned inside your workspace

>       2. Converting a local vault into a remote vault:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      2. If converting local vault(s) into remote vault(s):
```
